
The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Ohio naturalist, Vol. I, No. 6,
April, 1901

This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and 
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions 
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms 
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online 
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, 
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located 
before using this eBook.


Title: The Ohio naturalist, Vol. I, No. 6, April, 1901

Author: Various

Release Date: August 26, 2023 [eBook #71494]

Language: English

Credits: Richard Tonsing and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team
         at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
         generously made available by The Internet Archive)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE OHIO NATURALIST, VOL. I,
NO. 6, APRIL, 1901 ***





                                THE OHIO
                               Naturalist

                              PUBLISHED BY

            THE BIOLOGICAL CLUB OF THE OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY

                            EDITORIAL STAFF

            EDITOR-IN-CHIEF—JOHN H. SCHAFFNER, A. M., M. S.

                           ASSOCIATE EDITORS:

                   _Zoology_—F. L. LANDACRE, B. Sc.
                   _Botany_—F. J. TYLER, B. Sc.
                   _Geology_—J. A. BOWNOCKER, D. Sc.
                   _Archaeology_—W. C. MILLS, B. Sc.
                   _Ornithology_—R. F. GRIGGS.


                           ADVISORY BOARD:

                   PROFESSOR W. A. KELLERMAN, Ph. D.
                           Department of Botany.
                   PROFESSOR HERBERT OSBORN, M. Sc.
                           Department of Zoology.
                   PROFESSOR J. A. BOWNOCKER, D. Sc.
                           Department of Geology.

 Volume I.                     April, 1901                      Number 6


                             COLUMBUS, OHIO

                        _PRESS OF HANN & ADAIR_


[Sidenote: _THE OHIO
           NATURALIST_]

A journal devoted more especially to the natural history of Ohio. The
official organ of THE BIOLOGICAL CLUB OF THE OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY.
Published monthly during the academic year, from November to June (8
numbers). Price 50 cents per year, payable in advance. To foreign
countries, 75 cents. Single copies 10 cents.

                                     JOHN H. SCHAFFNER, _Editor_.
                                     F. J. TYLER, _Subscriptions_.
                                     R. F. GRIGGS, _Advertising Agent_.
             _Address_
                         THE OHIO NATURALIST, Ohio State University,
                                                         COLUMBUS, OHIO.




                                CONTENTS


 The Lake Laboratory                                                  79
              _Herbert Osborn_
 Notes on the Flora of Sandusky                                       82
              _W. A . Kellerman_
 Zoological Notes                                                     86
              _Herbert Osborn_
 Notes on the Bird Life of Cedar Point                                91
              _Robert F. Griggs_
 Plant Study at Sandusky Bay                                          93
              _Harriet G. Burr_
 Dragonflies of Sandusky                                              94
              _James S. Hine_
 Sponges and Bryozoans of Sandusky Bay                                96
              _F. L. Landacre_
 Additions to the Sandusky Flora                                      97
              _Robert F. Griggs_
 Minor Plant Notes, No. 3                                             98
              _W. A. Kellerman_
 A List of Kansas Desmids                                            100
              _John H. Schaffner_
 Mosses; Illustrative Samples                                        102
              _W. A. Kellerman_
 Additional Note on the Syndesmon Involucre                          104
              _A. Wetzstein_
 Meetings of the Biological Club                                     105
              _James S. Hine, Sec._
 News and Notes                                                      106

 Entered at the Post Office at Columbus, Ohio, as second class matter.




                         =The Ohio Naturalist=


                              PUBLISHED BY

            THE BIOLOGICAL CLUB OF THE OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY

 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
 Vol. I.                       APRIL, 1901                         No. 6
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────




                          THE LAKE LABORATORY.

                            HERBERT OSBORN.


Most readers of the NATURALIST are probably aware that the University
maintains at Sandusky a lake laboratory, devoted to the investigation
and study of the life of the lake region. As this number of the
NATURALIST is devoted mostly to reports upon work which has been done
there, it may be of interest to give some facts regarding opportunities
offered and the character of the work provided for.

The laboratory was first opened by Professor Kellicott in 1895, with a
view specially to give opportunity for investigation, and he and several
of his students engaged in work there through the summers of ’95–6–7.
Some of the results of these studies were published, especially
Professor Kellicott’s report upon the Rotifers of Sandusky Bay and the
list of Odonata for the State, which includes numerous records for that
locality. During the summer of 1899 the writer and several associates
occupied the laboratory, and studies upon the fishes of the locality,
records of Hemiptera and some other groups have been incorporated in
different papers. In 1900 the scope of the laboratory was enlarged so as
to provide courses of instruction in Botany and Zoology, and a number of
students and investigators improved the opportunity to work during the
summer vacation. Reports on the Odonata, sponges, Bryozoa, and the notes
on birds appearing in the present issue indicate the range of the
studies engaged in that season. However, many lines of study which were
begun by different students and which will require several seasons for
observations, are not as yet ready for publication. It may be noted,
however, that the flora of the locality has been very thoroughly
collected by Professor Moseley, of the Sandusky High School, and his
publication on the “Sandusky Flora” furnishes an admirable guide to the
location of the various species of plants, and an excellent basis for
additional investigation. The laboratory will at present accommodate
twenty-five or thirty students, and its capacity will doubtless be
increased as necessity requires. It is a two-story frame building 22 ×
66 feet, the upper floor of which is used for investigation and the
lower in part for students’ laboratory tables. It is supplied with city
water, a number of aquaria, has a convenient dark room for photographic
work, and answers admirably for the purpose for which it is used—that
is, for a temporary summer laboratory. The laboratory is supplied with
two boats equipped with sails, and designed especially for work in the
bay and marshes. Dredges, seines, plankton net and other collecting
apparatus are provided, while microscopes, microtomes, books, and other
laboratory equipments are taken from the university.

[Illustration:

  PART OF LABORATORY ROOM, LOWER FLOOR.
]

[Illustration:

  _Plate 6._

  LABORATORY ROOMS OF UPPER FLOOR.
]

While under the management of the Ohio State University, it is desired
to make the laboratory as useful as possible to instructors and
investigators in biology, wherever located. To this end table room is
granted free of charge to qualified investigators, and any one wishing
to undertake investigation of biological problems will be given all
possible opportunity. Courses of study have been designed especially for
high school teachers and for advanced university students, the former
devoting themselves to methods of field work and preservation of
material for laboratory use, and acquiring methods of laboratory work in
connection with study of typical forms. For the latter, advanced courses
in embryology, morphology, entomology, plant ecology, botany, etc., are
offered. The students taking such courses can secure for them university
credits covering equivalent courses in the university curriculum. It is
needless to say that the opportunities for field observation,
collecting, and the laboratory study of representative forms are most
favorable. For special advanced courses in embryology, and particularly
those pertaining to microscopical technique, the more elaborate
equipment of the university is of course preferable.




                    NOTES ON THE FLORA OF SANDUSKY.

                            W. A. KELLERMAN.


The visitor or student at the Lake Laboratory will find in the
neighborhood of Sandusky a flora in many respects peculiar and richer in
species perhaps than in any other region of similar area in the state of
Ohio. For our knowledge of the Sandusky plants we are indebted mainly to
the continued and energetic explorations of E. L. Moseley, teacher of
botany in the Sandusky High School. Our visits to the region have been
numerous, and many weeks have been spent in herborizing during the last
few seasons. Mr. Moseley’s Sandusky Flora (Ohio State Academy of
Science, Special Papers No. 1) and additions by myself and Mr. Griggs
reported before the Academy of Science, and published in THE OHIO
NATURALIST, Vol. 1, fully represent our knowledge of this interesting
flora to date.

In the “Sandusky Flora,” page 2, Mr. Moseley states that “the surpassing
richness of the Sandusky flora is not due to the fact that it includes
islands within its territory, for scarcely any of its species are
confined to the islands; nor is it in a very large measure due to the
fact that it includes species that are confined to the lake shore; but
rather to peculiarities of climate and geological features, both of
which depend to some extent on the proximity of the lake.”

[Illustration:

  _Plate 7._

  AT THE BOAT LANDING.
]

Space will allow reference to but few of the interesting and rarer
plants. On Cedar Point and a few other places the Prickly pear, Opuntia
humifusa, appears in great abundance, but is reported for no other
stations in Ohio. The illustration (Fig. 1) shows a patch of this plant,
and also indicates the sparse vegetation in the open sandy Black Oak
woods of Cedar Point. Here we found three specimens of the rare Lea’s
Oak, one fine specimen of the common Juniper (Juniperus communis), two
specimens of the Sand cherry (Prunus pumila), none of which are given in
the “Sandusky Flora” for this place, and one only—the Juniper—for
Catawba. Of other rare or specially interesting plants for this point
the following may be mentioned: Ammophila arenaria, Panicum virgatum,
Salix glaucophylla, Salix sericea, Euphorbia polygonifolia, Pinus
strobus, Stipa spartea, Chenopodium leptophyllum, Lepargyraea
canadensis, Œnothera rhombipetala, Artemisia caudata, Arctostaphylos
uvaursi, Symphoricarpus pauciflorus, Utricularia gibba and Lacinaria
scariosa.

By no means the least interesting vegetation on Cedar Point are the dune
plants, many species of arenophilous species, and efficient soil
binders. Some idea of the appearance of a few of such plants may be
gained from the cut (Fig. 2), which shows one of the sand hills held
exclusively by the roots of the Red Cedar. Other similar hillocks are
held by one of the wild grape vines, Vitis vulpina, and many other
plants. The tufts of some of the grasses, especially Panicum virgatum,
can be seen in the same illustration.

At Marblehead and Catawba the flora is equally rich in local and
interesting plants. Huge Buckeyes occur, one of which measures nine feet
and two inches in circumference. The Red Oaks are numerous and
remarkably variable in their fruits. There occurs Zygadena elegans and
Kœleria cristata, Meibomia illonoensis, Solanum rostratum, and
Picradenia acaulis—all western species. The Lakeside Daisy, as the
Picradenia has been locally named, is especially attractive. It occurs
in one place in Illinois, but otherwise known only far west of the
Mississippi river.

Elsewhere, and especially in the prairie region of Erie county, there
occur such rare species as Aletris fainosa, Aristida gracilis and A.
purpurascens, Salix candida, Prunus cuneata, Psoralea pedunculata,
Rhexia virginica, Eryngium yuccifolium, Asclepias obtusifolia and A.
sullivantii, and Helianthus mollis.

The bay is even richer, presenting acres and acres of Nelumbo,
Sagittaria, Potamogetons, Rushes, Reeds, Duckweeds, Polygonum,
Ceratophyllum, and others too numerous to mention. The innumerable and
unenumerated Algae must not go unmentioned—here, as in many other lines,
the enthusiastic students will reap a rich harvest.

[Illustration:

  _Plate 8._

  FIG. 1.—PRICKLY PEAR IN WOODS OF BLACK OAK, CEDAR POINT.
]

[Illustration:

  FIG. 2.—SAND HELD BY THE ROOTS OF RED CEDAR.

  KELLERMAN ON PLANTS OF CEDAR POINT.
]




                           ZOOLOGICAL NOTES.

                            HERBERT OSBORN.


Cedar Point offers a number of rather peculiar features for study, and
the fauna of the locality presents a very attractive field. On the one
hand there is an extensive beach some six or seven miles in length, from
which the sand dune formation extends backwards and merges into a swampy
area bordering the waters of Sandusky Bay. On the beach after every
storm will be found a large mass of drift material, including numerous
fishes that have been thrown ashore. These furnish an attraction for a
number of forms of animals, a complete census of which has as yet not
been attempted. It may be mentioned, however, that numerous species of
flies take to them to deposit their eggs, the larvae a few days after
each storm being a conspicuous element to be followed a few days later
by pupae or mature flies; these in turn attract various birds and large
numbers of toads, which seem to secure a very constant source of food
especially in this vicinity. Species of burrowing Hymenoptera are
conspicuous and upon the sand dunes the grasshopper (_Trimeroptropis
maritima_) is especially abundant. A millipede (_Fontaria indianae_) is
also very abundant crawling over the sand, and turtles from the lake
pass up the beach and over the dunes to deposit their eggs at favorable
points.

[Illustration:

  FIG. 1.—A BIT OF CEDAR POINT BEACH.
]

FOOT PRINTS.—A study of the tracks and foot prints which are made in the
sand is especially interesting, and the determination of species which
are responsible for particular kinds of tracks is a fascinating though
somewhat complicated study. Several of these have been identified with
certainty, and a brief description of them in connection with a
reproduction of some photographs may be of interest. Toad tracks are
numerous and quite conspicuous and consist of four slight imprints in
the sand, these occurring with regularity in length corresponding with
the length of the leap and the tracks, with the distance between them,
corresponding with the size of the individual. These are shown in Figure
2, between the points marked X. The abundant grasshopper, described more
fully in another paragraph, produces when walking a continuous series of
fine imprints in two or three more or less distinct lines on either
side, midway between which is a narrow groove formed by the dragging of
the abdomen. These tracks begin and end abruptly in case the insect is
alarmed and leaps into the air. Several of these lines of imprint are
shown in the figure—one distinct one above the point in Figure 2, marked
+. Another very characteristic one that is easily referred to the
millipede consists of parallel lines, in which the imprints of the
individual feet are scarcely visible, and between which the sand is
smoothed by the under surface of the body. In Fig. 2 under _o_.

[Illustration:

  FIG. 2.—FOOTPRINTS OF TOAD, GRASSHOPPER AND MILLIPEDE.

  Photo by H. Osborn.
]

[Illustration:

  FIG. 3.—PITFALLS AND TRACKS OF ANT LIONS.
]

ANT LION.—Still another very characteristic member of the dune fauna is
the ant lion, the larvae of which construct their characteristic
pitfalls in slightly protected places near bushes or trees, sometimes in
great numbers, indicating a very numerous colony of these curious
creatures. Of these there are, judging by the larvae, two quite distinct
species common to the Point, but these have not as yet been reared.
Aside from the pitfalls these ant lions make a peculiar track in the
sand when they are moving from one point to another. These movements
apparently occur only during short periods, as is shown when an area
which has been entirely free from such tracks will be noticed after an
hour or two to be completely netted with their devious furrows, which
could only be formed by a number of larvae. The larvae move backward,
and from the character of the furrows produced in the sand, must remain
just beneath the surface of the sand, as the sand is raised on either
side. That the furrows are formed by these larvae is proven by the fact
that if the pitfalls at their ends be dug into they will be found to
contain larvae. The movements of the larvae, forcibly produced, make
lines like those observed. Pitfalls and furrows are illustrated in the
accompanying plates, the furrows being quite indistinct, as they are not
deep enough to produce distinct shade, and consequently do not show
conspicuously in the photograph. Furrows are to be noted, however, in
the figure (No. 3) above the points marked X.

[Illustration:

  FIG. 4.—EAGLE NEST.

  Photo by R. F. Griggs.
]

[Illustration:

  FIG. 5.—EAGLE NEST.

  Photo by H. Osborn.
]

EAGLE NESTS.—The bald eagle nests at various points along the lake
shore, and some of these nests were observed, and photographs secured
during the past summer. One of these is between Sandusky and Huron,
about two miles from Huron, and a half mile from the Huron street
railway, in a Shag bark hickory tree. It stands away from other timber,
although it is said formerly to have been surrounded entirely by trees.
It is probably one hundred and twenty-five feet in height, or more, and
doubtless towered above surrounding trees, and at present constitutes
the most conspicuous object to be seen for miles in any direction. The
nest, as shown in the accompanying photographs, must be at least a
hundred feet from the ground, but owing to the impossibility of climbing
the tree, and from the fact that no exact means of measurement were at
hand, the precise height is unknown. This nest, we were told, has been
in this tree only a few years, but prior to its building one has existed
in the immediate locality for at least thirty years past. The nest is
evidently five or six feet in diameter, being somewhat more flattened
than other nests observed, owing probably to the spreading character of
the limbs upon which it rests. No eagles were to be seen at the time of
our visit to the tree, but we were informed by the proprietor of the
farm that they had reared a brood during the season, and one was seen
later by Mr. Griggs, at the time his photograph was taken.

Other nests occur on Kelly’s Island, and we made a trip to that locality
for the purpose of noting them and taking photographs, which, however,
on account of the day being unfavorable, are not very clear, and cannot
be reproduced to advantage. They are about a mile and a half eastward
from the steamboat landing, one occurring in a Maple tree about
seventy-five feet in height, and the nest at a height of about
sixty-five feet, being at least six feet in height, fitting the somewhat
acute crotch, and at least five or six feet across the top. The other is
in a Burr Oak tree, some distance from other trees, in a vineyard, and
plainly to be seen from the lake steamers when to the southeast of the
landing. The tree is about a hundred feet high, and the nest is about
eighty or eighty-five feet from the ground. It is similar in form to the
one just mentioned. Portions can be seen to contain very large branches,
which show out conspicuously from the ground.

TRIMEROTROPIS MARITIMA.—This grasshopper which is very abundant on the
dunes along Cedar Point Beach, is of special interest because of its
protective resemblance to the sand on which it ordinarily rests. It is
one of the best examples I have seen of adaptive coloration, but does
not seem to have been mentioned in such connection, possibly because the
colors change in preserved specimens so that the mimicry is totally
lost. They reach maturity in latter part of June, and while only larvae
are seen in middle of June, nearly all have matured by the latter part
of July. They occur most abundantly on the sand adjacent to the clumps
of grass upon which they doubtless feed, though so far no individuals
have been observed actually feeding on grass leaves, but one was
observed eating a fragment of apple cast up in drift materials on the
beach. When disturbed they invariably alight on the sand, upon which
they become at once invisible. About the only way to capture them is to
throw a net down on a spot where one has been seen to alight, and then
it not infrequently happens that two or even three will be caught though
their presence has not been suspected.

The adult is whitish gray speckled with ferruginous fuscous and black,
conspicuous ferruginous points occurring usually on the anterior margin
of pronotum and on the lower borders of epimera of meso- and
meta-thorax, humeri of elytra and discal carina of femur, these may be
faint or obsolete, and on wings and legs may form slender lides; dark
freckles occur on carinæ of vertex and face, forming a series back of
collar on pronotum, on posterior border of pronotum and on sides of
elytra and hind femora; on elytra they are thicker at three places,
one-fourth, one-half and two-thirds from base, constituting fairly
distinct patches, and on femur are two indistinct bands corresponding
with well marked black bands on the inner side. Anterior and middle
femora and tibiæ nearly white, milky, with gray annulations; hind tibiæ
gray at base, distal two-thirds yellow, in one form orange or reddish,
spines yellow, tipped with black, anterior and middle tarsi ferruginous
or reddish, hind tarsi yellow. The sternum is finely pilose. A variety
is quite uniformly yellowish gray.

The larvae are similarly speckled but differ in that the dorsum of
abdomen is densely speckled, while in adults this part protected by the
folded wings is not speckled. In all these points a perfect adaptation
to the color and markings that blend with the sand grains is evident.

In the latter part of the summer of 1899, many of these grasshoppers
died from an attack of parasitic fungus, and in such cases climbed up on
stems of grass where their whitened bodies became very conspicuous. Eggs
are doubtless laid in autumn probably in packed sand in grass clumps to
hatch in following spring.




                 NOTES ON THE BIRD LIFE OF CEDAR POINT.

                           ROBERT F. GRIGGS.


Ecologically Cedar Point is an exceedingly interesting region. It is a
narrow peninsula on one side of which flourishes a xerophytic dune
flora, and on the other a luxuriant hydrophytic marsh flora. The meeting
of these two gives the flora a very peculiar aspect. Except at its tip
Cedar Point has never been inhabited. It is still in very nearly its
primitive condition. With a view to seeing how these and other factors
peculiar to the region have influenced its bird life, these notes have
been assembled. No pretentions to systematic completeness are made; the
present purpose is more to determine the general character of the
avifauna than to give a complete list including many accidental or
occasional species which would overshadow the more characteristic
residents. The observations upon which these notes are based were taken
during the summer months (1900) when there were few species migrating,
so that with the exceptions noted they include only the bulk of the
summer residents at the Point. The birds of the marsh and bay are so
inseparable from those of the point proper, that the commoner of them
have been included, though no special study of them was made. The
following birds were observed:

Sterna hirundo Linn. Common Tern, common.

Hydrochelidon nigra surinamensis (Gmel.). Black Tern, common, breeds.

Botaurus lentiginosus (Montag.). American Bittern, common.

Ardetta exilis (Gmel.). Least Bittern, common.

Ardea Herodias Linn. Great Blue Heron, common.

Gallinula galeata (Licht.). Florida Gallinule.

Fulica americana Gmel. Coot, common, breeds.

Ereunetes pusillus (Linn.). Semi-palmated Sandpiper. No specimens were
taken to render identification sure-occurs in numbers on the beach.

Symphemia semipalmata (Gmel.). Willet, a few individuals.

Aegialitis vocifera (Linn.). Killdeer, common.

Zenaidura macroura (Linn.). Mourning Dove, not common, breeds.

Circus hudsonius (Linn.). Marsh Hawk.

Halæetus leucocephalus (Linn.). Bald Eagle, nests near the foot of the
Point.

Coccyzus americanus (Linn.). Yellow-billed Cuckoo, scarce.

Coccyzus erythropthalmus (Wils.). Black-billed Cuckoo, quite common.

Colaptes auratus (Linn.). Flicker. I do not understand why the
woodpeckers should not be well represented. There appears to be abundant
feeding ground for them; yet I saw only one solitary flicker, the least
specialised of all the woodpeckers.

Trochilus colubris (Linn.). Ruby-throated Hummingbird, congregates in
small flocks about the frequent clumps of trumpet creeper.

Tyrannus tyrannus (Linn.). Kingbird, breeds. This and the other
fly-catchers are very abundant on account of the great number of insects
occurring.

Myiarchus crinitus (Linn.). Crested Flycatcher, breeds.

Contopus virens (Linn.). Wood Pewee, very common.

Agelaius phœniceus (Linn.). Red-winged Blackbird, common.

Icterus galbula (Linn.). Baltimore Oriole, one small flock migrating.

Quiscalus quiscula æneus (Ridgw.). Crow Blackbird. This with the
redwings and probably the other blackbirds congregates in very large
flocks.

Melospiza fasciata (Gmel.). Song Sparrow, common.

Pipilo erythropthalmus (Linn.). Towhee.

Cardinalis cardinalis (Linn.). Cardinal, one pair.

Passerina cyanea (Linn.). Indigo Bunting, very common.

Petrochelidon lunifrons (Say.). Eave Swallow.

Chelidon erythrogaster (Bodd.). Barn Swallow.

Clivicola riparia (Linn.). Bank Swallow.

The Swallows flock to the beach by thousands after a storm, but are not
abundant at other times.

Ampelis cedrorum (Vieill.). Cedar Waxwing.

Dendroica aestiva (Gmel.). Yellow Warbler, common, breeds.

Icteria virens (Linn.). Yellow-breasted Chat.

Galeoscoptes carolinensis (Linn.), Catbird, common, breeds.

Cistothorus palustris (Wils.). Long-billed Marsh Wren, very common,
breeds.

Parus atricapillus (Linn.). Chickadee.

Merula migratoria (Linn.). American Robin, only one pair, seen only
once.

Many birds common in most localities are conspicuous by their absence.
The blue jay, crow, thrushes, most of the birds of prey, and the
woodpeckers, and many of the sparrows, especially the ubiquitous English
sparrow, were not observed at all. But the species occurring are present
in great numbers, so that the region may be said to be monotonous in its
bird life as well as in its other ecological relations.




                      PLANT STUDY AT SANDUSKY BAY.

                            HARRIET G. BURR.


To one whose work has not included collecting and study in such
surroundings as Sandusky Bay affords, the revelation of even a few days
here is worth a great deal. The marshes about Sandusky, the rocky
islands, the sand dunes at Cedar Point, the “prairie” in the direction
of Castalia, all offer valuable work to the student of ecology.

But during the week spent at the Lake Laboratory last August it was in
study of the water plants of the Bay that I found the greatest interest.
The collecting is after a manner novel to the “land lubber.” The
collections, carried back to the Laboratory for study, have the
fascination of the unusual, for represented among them are families more
or less unfamiliar to general students.

A collecting trip for water-plants usually takes one across the Bay
among the bulrushes and wild rice along Cedar Point. Here from the sides
of the boat we look down into a wilderness of strange forms through the
clear water. The curious eel-grass, with its perfect spirals,
Myriophyllum and Chara, Philotria, Utricularia, and the Potamogetons
spread out upon the surface among the lily-pads around us, are among the
most conspicuous. A few minutes collecting here is productive of results
quite out of proportion to the time spent. Many of these plants, at the
time of my visit, had lifted themselves to the surface and bore their
inflorescence above the water. Among these were some of the
Potamogetons, Utricularia, Philotria, and others. A marigold looked
strangely out of place on the surface of the water—it was the Bidens
Beckii in bloom. The American Lotus lifted its head conspicuously above
its lesser neighbors. Some minute, light-colored, fluffy masses,
floating far out in the Bay, we decided to be the pollen of the
Vallisneria.

I have said nothing of the Algae; the most of my work at the Laboratory,
however, was with these forms. Many kinds are common and many more may
be obtained by seeking for them. These types of plant life, in beauty of
form and importance of study rivaled by none, repay much time spent upon
them.

The collecting and study of only a week here—a week, too, of recreation
rather than of work—was but a suggestion of what might be done, though
one which proved quite powerful. From our landing at Cedar Point was
visible, for a long distance out, the bright pink of a Swamp Rose
Mallow. It typified the week’s work, it was a suggestion, too, of other
strangers which might be lurking behind those trees and among those
vines and undergrowth. We found that the suggestion was not a vain one,
and in following it out we were never disappointed.




                        DRAGONFLIES OF SANDUSKY.

                             JAMES S. HINE.


As the dragonflies of Sandusky have been quite carefully collected for a
number of years, it may be worth while to give the result in the form of
a list with notes on some of the species.

Calopteryx maculata and Hetaerina americana have not been taken as
commonly as in some places, for the locality does not furnish their most
desirable surroundings.

The genus Lestes is represented by unguiculatus, uncatus, disjunctus,
forcipatus, rectaugularis, vigilax, inequalis and eurinus. Nearly all of
these species are abundant and are mostly found among the grass at the
edge of the marsh.

The genus _Argia_ is represented by four species, putrida, violacea,
sedula and apicalis. The first two are very numerous in individuals.

Nehalennia posita and irene; Enallagma civile, ebrium, carunculatum,
aspersum, exsulans, geminatum, antennatum, signatum pollutum;
Amphiagrion saucium and Ischnura verticalis have all been taken, usually
near the water’s edge.

The Gomphines are not represented by a great number of species. Gomphus
vastus is exceedingly common, and fraternus, furcifer, exilis, spicatus
and plagiatus have been taken. Dromogomphus spinosus is also common.

Epiaeschna heros and Æschna verticalis and constricta may occasionally
be seen, especially about the time the sun sets, catching small insects
for food. Anax junius is the most conspicuous species in the locality
from May to September.

Macromia illinoiensis is a very common species. At certain times the
males and females of this species may be found in numbers in quiet
places among bushes, where they come to rest on the under side of
branches, their bodies being at an angle of about thirty degrees with
the branch. They are easily approached at such times, and two females
and four males have been taken at a single sweep of the net.

Epicordulia princeps, Tetragoneuria cynosura, Tramea carolina and
lacerata and Pantala flavescens are occasionally seen.

Neurocordulia yamaskanensis has only been taken once on Rattlesnake
Island. It is a rare species, but one that is more common in the
northern states.

The genus Libellula is represented by basalis, 4-maculata, semifasciata,
pulchella and incesta; and Sympetrum by obtrusum, rubicundulum, vicinum,
senicinctum and corruptum.

Pachydiplax longipennis, Plathemis lydia, mesothemis simplicicollis,
Perithemis domitia, Leucorhinia intacta and Celethemis eponina and elisa
are abundant, and with the members of the genus Libellula furnish a very
large percentage of the dragonfly life of the Sandusky Marshes.




                 SPONGES AND BRYOZOANS OF SANDUSKY BAY.

                            F. L. LANDACRE.


The two small groups of fresh water sponges and Bryozoa received some
attention at the Lake laboratory during the summer of 1900.

All our fresh water sponges belong to one family, the _Spongillidae_,
which has about seven genera. They differ from the marine sponges in two
particulars. They form skeletons of silicon only, while marine sponges
may form silicious or limy or spongin skeletons. The spongin skeleton is
the one that gives the bath sponge its value.

They also form winter buds or statoblasts which carry the sponge over
the winter and reproduce it again in the spring. This peculiar process
was probably acquired on account of the changes in temperature and in
amount of moisture to which animals living in fresh water streams are
subjected. The sponge dies in the fall of the year and its skeleton of
silicious spines or spicules can be found with no protoplasm. The
character of the spines in the body of the sponge and those surrounding
the statoblast differ greatly, and those around the statoblast are the
main reliance in identifying sponges. So that if a statoblast is found
the sponge from which it came can be determined, and on the other hand
it is frequently very difficult to determine the species of a sponge if
it has not yet formed its statoblast. The statoblast is a globular or
disc-shaped, nitroginous cell with a chimney-like opening where the
protoplasm escapes in the spring. The adult sponge is non-sexual but the
statoblasts give rise to ova and spermatozoa which unite and produce a
new sponge. The statoblast is considered as the sexual generation.

Three species belonging to one of the seven genera were positively
identified.

_Spongilla fragilis_, Leidy, a very common form was found on submerged
rocks on the south side of the bay near the city in great abundance. Its
yellow statoblasts are numerous and placed in layers near the base of
the sponge on the rock to which it is attached.

Another species _Spongilla cinerea_, Carter, was found on floating
timber. It is ashen gray in color.

A third species _Spongilla aspinosa_, Potts, was found in Black Channel
and near the city on submerged rocks. Its color is green. Other species
were found but not definitely determined.

The fresh water Polyozoa comprise a small group of animals resembling
the sponges in the process of statoblast formation, but otherwise
totally different. Their real relationship is not definitely known. They
are among the most beautiful of our lower fresh water forms. The body is
nearly always protected by a cyst from which the anterior end of the
animal projects when undisturbed and into which it can be retracted.
There is a larval form resembling that of the worms and several other
invertebrate groups, and a marked metamorphosis to the adult form. The
statoblasts as in the sponges are of value in identification, and are
formed on a strand of tissue connecting the base of the animal to its
cyst. The individuals or Polyps increase in number by budding.

Two species are quite common at Sandusky. _Plumatella polymorpha_ as its
name indicates is quite variable in form. The variety _repens_ was very
common on the rocks on the south side of bay near the city. Its
vine-like appearance renders it easy to identify. The Polyps are borne
on the ends of the branches. The vine-like cyst clings closely to its
support. The second species _Pectinatella magnifica_ was found in Black
Channel on submerged fish nets. It has a large spherical gelatinous base
frequently eight or ten inches in diameter, over which the colonies of
polyps are distributed. The individuals in each colony are arranged in
the form of an aster. These large colonies are striking in appearance.
The larvae are quite numerous and are globular in shape, and swim quite
freely when liberated from the parent colony. The statoblasts are found
in the fall as in the sponges. The process of statoblast formation and
of larval development were studied, but the budding of individuals to
enlarge the colony was not followed. The statoblasts of these animals
seem to need to be both dried and frozen before development will go on
in the spring.




                    ADDITIONS TO THE SANDUSKY FLORA.

                           ROBERT F. GRIGGS.


The following plants not given in the “Sandusky Flora” have been
collected in Erie county. They are here given in order that those
possessing a copy of Professor Moseley’s excellent flora of the region
may keep it up to date. The numbers refer to the pages of the Sandusky
Flora, on which the additions should be made.

  44. Avena sativa L. Common Oat, escaped. W. A. Kellerman.

  61. [1]Wolffia braziliensis Wedd. Brazil Wolffia Sandusky Bay,
        abundant at times. R. F. Griggs.

  70. Populus balsamifera L. Tacmahac, abundant on some portions of
        Cedar Point. R. F. Griggs.

  71. Salix fragilis L. Crack Willow, common. W. A. Kellerman and R. F.
        Griggs.

  71. [1]Salix interior var. wheeleri Rowlee. Cedar Point. W. A.
        Kellerman and R. F. Griggs.

  71. [1]Salix petiolaris var. gracilis And. Perkins twp. R. F. Griggs.

  71. [1]Salix candida x cordata. Castalia. R. F. Griggs.

  73. Quercus leana Nutt. (Q. imbucaria x velutina). Cedar Point, three
        trees. W. A. Kellerman and R. F. Griggs.

  98. Crataegus sp. undetermined. Marblehead. W. A. Kellerman.

  99. Prunus pumila L. Sand Cherry, two plants on Cedar Point. W. A.
        Kellerman and R. F. Griggs.

 130. Convolvulus japonicus Thumb. Sandusky, escaped. R. F. Griggs.

 156. Eupatorium maculatum L. Blue Hole, Castalia. Frederick Dunlap.

 158. [1]Helianthus maximiliani Schrad. A single plant along L. S. & M.
        S. tracks. R. F. Griggs.

 159. [1]Polymnia canadensis var. radiata Gray. Cedar Point, very
        abundant. R. F. Griggs.

Footnote 1:

  Previously reported as additions to State list. See OHIO NATURALIST,
  1: 15–16.




                       MINOR PLANT NOTES, NO. 3.

                            W. A. KELLERMAN.


SORGHUM SMUT IN ADAMS COUNTY.—A small field of Sorghum near Mineral
Springs Station, Adams County, Ohio, was observed last November to be
badly infected with the grain smut of Sorghum, known to botanists as
ustilago sorghi, or perhaps more correctly designated (according to G.
P. Clinton) as Cintractia sorghi-vulgaris. A careful inspection of the
harvested stalks, still piled in the field, showed that fully twenty per
cent. of the panicles or heads were infected. When there is infection by
this smut, usually every grain in the panicle is smutted according to
repeated observations in various localities. The field in question was
very thickly planted to sorghum, the crop evidently being intended for
stock feed. The only other locality reported in Ohio for this smut, so
far as at present recalled, is Columbus, where however it has occurred
only upon artificial infection. Broom corn also was here successfully
infected. Sorghum is often cultivated, but not in large quantities in
Ohio; a large acreage of broom corn is however annually planted. Request
is hereby made for reports in case this smut is noticed in other
localities in our State. The Head-smut of Sorghum, Ustilago reiliana,
should also be reported if observed.

NOTES ON SOME RUSTS.—M. A. Carleton, of the United States Department of
Agriculture, has published some observations and experiments on a few
rusts that are of special interest, and may well be noted here. He has
shown that the common and abundant Spurge Rust, occurring on very many
species of Euphorbia (twelve of which are listed in the Ohio Flora) is
able to propagate itself constantly through the germinating seed of its
host, and therefore becomes in that way practically a perennial species.
He remarks that “It is the only demonstrated example of this manner of
propagation in the whole order of Uredineae. Actual cluster-cups may be
seen in the hulled seeds of Euphorbia dentata. Seedlings kept under bell
jars become rusted three months from the date of planting, showing all
stages of the rust, while seeds disinfected with mercuric chloride
produce no rusted plants.”

OHIO HYBRID OAKS.—The Ohio Oaks have received as yet no critical study,
though notes as to their variation have occasionally and indirectly got
into print. It is often suggested that there may be numerous hybrid
forms, though mere guesses are scarcely of any significance. Lea’s Oak,
which is now known to occur in Ohio at four stations, namely, Cincinnati
(the original locality reported), Brownsville in Licking County (tree
since cut down), Columbus (one specimen), and Cedar Point in Erie
County, has been known for years. It has been generally referred to
Quercus imbricaria and Quercus velutina for its parentage, though Mr.
Fischer was of opinion that the Columbus specimen was a cross between
Quercus rubra and Quercus imbricarica. It was a matter of much interest
when Mr. A. D. Selby reported, at the December Meeting of the Ohio
Academy of Science, that he observed a hybrid Oak, a single tree,
growing at Lakeville, Holmes County. The parentage he refers to Quercus
alba and questionably Quercus inbricaria. He reports it with pronounced
aspect of Q. alba “save in the elongated, short-lobed leaves which
obviously approach those of Q. inbricaria.” While certain resemblances
to Q. acuminata may suggest themselves (were his words) this species has
not been observed in the immediate region. No mature fruit was seen. We
may perhaps venture to suggest that the evidence for its hybridity
between the two species named—one an annual-fruited and the other a
biennial-fruited species—is suspiciously slender, and it is hoped that
mature fruit and further inspection may put the case beyond doubt.

ASPARAGUS RUST ABUNDANT ON YOUNG PLANTS.—An inspection of the two
patches of Asparagus on the University farm unexpectedly showed a more
general infection of the plants which were but one year old. The older
plants grow in the narrow flood plain of a little stream that flows
through the farm to the Olentangy; throughout this patch which is
perhaps a dozen years old, the infection is quite general, though very
few of the plants show a large amount of the Rust, and no perceptible
damage to the crop has hitherto been reported. A year ago seed was sown
on higher ground about twenty rods from the old patch. The soil is
mainly clay with some loam, and has been cultivated and fairly well
manured for many years. The ground slopes to the west and is well
drained, though the lower portion is perhaps somewhat inclined to be
moist. The plants made an excellent growth. The infection throughout was
general, quite a large percentage of the stalks at this season being
very black from base to tip with the almost contiguous sori or blotches
of Rust. Why these thrifty young plants should be so thoroughly
infected, as compared with the older ones but a short distance away
which have for several years harbored the Rust, though rather sparingly,
is not clear to the observer.




                       A LIST OF KANSAS DESMIDS.

                           JOHN H. SCHAFFNER.


A few years ago Prof. Lorenzo N. Johnson, of the University of Michigan,
was at work on a monograph of the Desmids of North America, intending to
make a comprehensive study of the American species; but his untimely
death in the early part of the year 1897, prevented the fulfillment of
this purpose. Some material which Prof. Johnson had received from Kansas
proved very rich in species.

Thinking that a list of the determined Kansas species would make a
valuable addition to the Kansas flora, I have obtained the following
list of forty-seven species which was kindly furnished by Mrs. Johnson,
of Evanston, Ill. I have verified the names, and arranged the genera in
the order followed in Engler and Prantl. Very few localities were given
in the card catalogue from which the list was taken, and only a few
others could be added which were taken from Prof. Johnson’s published
articles.


                          Family DESMIDIACEAE.

     PENIUM (Breb.) DeB.

  1. P. margaritaceum (Ehrb.) Breb.


                           CLOSTERIUM Nitzsch.

  2. C. acerosum (Schrank) Ehrb.

  3. C. areolatum Wood.

  4. C. didymotocum Corda.

  5. C. lanceolatum Ktz.

  6. C. leibleinii Ktz.

  7. C. lineatum Ehrb.

  8. C. lunula (Muell.) Nitzsch., Topeka.

  9. C. macilentum Breb.

 10. C. rostratum Ehrb.

 11. C. setaceum Ehrb.

 12. C. tumidium Johnson, Burlington.


                       PLEUROTAENIUM (Naeg.) Lund.

 13. P. nodulosum (Breb.) DeB.

 14. C. trabecula (Ehrb.) Naeg.


                         COSMARIUM (Corda) Lund.

 15. C. botrytis (Bory) Menegh.

 16. C. conspersum Ralfs.

 17. C. constrictum Delp.

 18. C. contractum Kirch.

 19. C. granatum Breb.

 20. C. ornatum Ralfs.

 21. C. porrectum Nordst., Burlington.

 22. C. portianum Arch.

 23. C. rectangulare Grun.

 24. C. gotlandicum Wittr., Burlington; perhaps the same as the
       preceding species.

 25. C. subcrenatum Hantzsch.

 26. C. sulcatum Nordst.

 27. C. triplicatum Wolle.


                         PLEUROTAENIOPSIS Lund.

 28. P. ovalis (Ralfs) Lund.


                           ARTHRODESMUS Ehrb.

 29. A. convergens Ehrb.


                            XANTHIDIUM Ehrb.

     (Holacanthum Lund.)

 30. X. antilopaeum (Breb.) Ktz.


                        STAURASTRUM (Meyen) Lund.

 31. S. arctiscon (Ehrb.) Lund.

 32. S. crenulatum (Naeg.) Delp.

 33. S. cuspidatum Breb.

 34. S. echinatum Breb.

 35. S. eustephanum (Ehrb.) Ralfs.

 36. S. polymorphum Breb.

 37. S. subarcuatum Wolle.


                         EUASTRUM (Ehrb.) Ralfs.

 38. E. binale (Turp.) Ralfs.

 39. E. verrucosum (Ehrb.) Ralfs.


                            MICRASTERIAS Ag.

 40. M. furcata Ag.

 41. M. rotata (Grev.) Ralfs.

 42. M. radiosa (Ag.) Ralfs.

 43. M. truncata (Corda) Breb.


                           ONYCHONEMA Wallich.

 44. O. laeve Nordst.


                       SPHAEROZOSMA (Corda) Arch.

 45. S. wallichii Jacobsen.


                            HYALOTHECA Kuetz.

 46. H. dissiliens (Smith) Breb.

 47. H. mucosa (Mert.) Ehrb.




                     MOSSES; ILLUSTRATIVE SAMPLES.

                            W. A. KELLERMAN.


[This article was prepared as a suggestion for the Ohio Schools, and is
issued simultaneously as No. 17 of the UNIVERSITY BULLETIN (Series 5.) A
wide distribution is advisable and it seems desirable to issue it here
also. Ohio teachers, pupils and amateurs will, it is hoped, become more
interested in our bryological flora.]

[Illustration:

  Fig. 1.[2]
]

Footnote 2:

  FIG. 1.—A common Moss (M) bearing fruit (_s_ and _cap._); one capsule
  is old, one fresh, one immature and covered by the calyptra (_cal._);
  the teeth (_t_) of the peristome (_p_), and a leaf (_l_) magnified,
  are also shown.

The samples on the accompanying attached sheet are intended to
illustrate the kind of material to be collected, and the method of
labelling and mounting the specimens, for the Herbarium. It will be
noticed that most of the specimens are in “fruit,” which is the popular
name for the “capsule” that terminates the “se-ta,” or slender stem. A
delicate cap called the “ca-lyp-tra,” may usually be seen, completely or
partially covering the capsule before it is fully mature. The terminal
portion of the capsule, called lid or “o-per-cu-lum,” often drops off
when maturity is reached; in this manner the “spores” or microscopical
non-sexual reproductive bodies produced within, are allowed to escape.
The mouth or opening of the spore case (capsule) is surrounded by a row
of slender teeth, called collectively the “per-i-stome;” this may be
clearly seen with the aid of a lens after the ripe operculum is removed.
The accompanying diagrammatic figures illustrate the parts just
mentioned.

The life history, or cycle of development, of our common Mosses may be
briefly sketched as follows: When the spores germinate a slender
branching tube, or alga-like filament, appears which has been designated
the “pro-to-ne-ma.” This contains chlorophyll; it grows in moist
protected places, and here and there develops root-like threads, called
“rhi-zoids,” which anchor it to the soil. “Gem-mae” or buds also appear
on the protonema and these develop into the upright clustered stems that
bear the leaf-like structures. At the apex of the “ae-ro-car-pous”
mosses, and from the sides in “pleu-ro-car-pous” species, there are
formed the organs for sexual reproduction, namely, “an-ther-id-i-a” and
“arch-e-go-ni-a;” these are surrounded by a cluster of leaf-like bracts,
called the “per-i-che-ti-um” or perichetial scales. This structure,
consisting of the delicate reproductive bodies and their conspicuous and
surrounding protecting organs, has been called the “flower” of the
mosses.

The microscopic bodies produced in the antheridia (and called
“sper-mat-o-zoids”), and that produced in the archegonia (and called the
“o-o-sphere”), are designated by the term “gam-etes;” it is their union
that constitutes “fertilization.” It can now be understood why this
stage of the development of the moss plant, as outlined in the preceding
paragraph, is designated by the term “gam-e-to-phyte;” it is the plant
(or generation) that produces the gametes. It is in popular language the
“moss” plant.

[Illustration:

  Fig. 2.[3]
]

Footnote 3:

  FIG. 2.—The growth or protonema (_pr._) from the spore (_Sp._), having
  rhizoids (_r_), and buds (_b_), from which stems develop.

The fusion of the two gametes results in the production of the sexual
spore, called the “o-o-spore;” it develops at once into the second
generation, or second stage in the life-cycle of the moss plant, which
is called the “spo-ro-phyte.” It consists of the seta and capsule; the
lower end (“foot”) of the seta becomes early embedded and fixed in the
tissue of the gametophyte, and from it is derived the nourishment
necessary to complete the development of the sporophyte, or the plant
that produces the numerous non-sexual spores. This “alternation of
generations,”—that is, the alternation of gametophyte and sporophyte,—is
not peculiar to Mosses, but occurs also in the Pter-id-o-phytes and
Sper-mat-o-phytes.


                CLASSIFICATION OF THE VEGETABLE KINGDOM.

I. Thal-lo-phytes; as the Slime-moulds, Bacteria, Common Algae (green
Pond-scum, etc.), Marine Algae (“Sea-moss”), Moulds, Mildews, Smuts,
Rusts, Mushrooms, Toadstools, Puffballs, etc.

II. Bry-o-phytes; The Mosses and Liverworts.

III. Pter-id-o-phytes; The Ferns, Club-mosses and Horsetails.

IV. Sper-mat-o-phytes; The Gymnosperms (Pines, etc.) and Angiosperms
(Monocotyls and Dicotyls).


                           ORDERS OF MOSSES.

1. Sphag-na-les; the Bog-mosses or Sphagnum.

2. An-dre-æ-a-les; one genus of small Mosses in mountain regions.

3. Ar-chid-i-a-les; only one very short-stemmed species.

4. Bry-a-les; the common Mosses occurring in Ohio.

The only book that could be used by beginners in identifying Mosses, is
Grout’s “Mosses with a Hand-lens,” price $1.10; procure if wanted from
the author, or if placed in our hands the order will be attended to. The
Manual by Lesquereux and James could be used by advanced students.

It is earnestly requested that contributions of Mosses for the STATE
HERBARIUM from every County in Ohio be made. Please send an ample amount
of each kind, enclosed in a temporary paper pocket or envelope; with
each specimen lay a slip of paper or temporary label, giving _locality,
date and collector’s name_, also any notes that are made with reference
to habitat or habit of the plants. The donor’s name and other data will
be placed on the permanent label accompanying the herbarium specimens.




              ADDITIONAL NOTE ON THE SYNDESMON INVOLUCRE.

                             A. WETZSTEIN.


In addition to the observations made by Mr. F. H. Burglehaus, Toledo,
Ohio, concerning the involucral leaves of Syndesmon thalictroides
Hoffmg., as stated in No. 5 of the OHIO NATURALIST, I also confirm the
contradiction in the habitus of plants growing in Auglaize County with
the description in Britton & Brown’s Flora. All specimens I found here
have no sessile involucral leaves, but petioles mostly about one-fourth
of an inch in length. Especially the later flowering plants, that often
grow over one foot high, show petioles of more than one-half inch in
length, while even the earliest—collected about the middle of April, and
no more than three inches high—exhibit distinctly petioled involucral
leaves.

It might be very interesting to find out the range of plants with
sessile involucres—for I do not at all think this description of
Syndesmon to be an error in so carefully prepared a Flora as Britton &
Brown’s is, the more as the given figure shows strictly sessile
involucres too.

  _St. Marys, Ohio._




                    MEETINGS OF THE BIOLOGICAL CLUB.


                           FEBRUARY MEETING.

The meeting of the Biological Club, held in the Zoological lecture room
on the evening of February 4th, 1901, was presided over by the
president, Prof. Osborn, about thirty being present.

Prof. Lazenby presented “Remarks on Poisonous Plants.” He mentioned many
of the poisons to which the poisonous properties of various plants are
due. Many cases of poisoning are caused by poisonous fungi gathered with
edible mushrooms, and greens gathered by persons unacquainted with
poisonous herbs. Stramonium has been known to cause cases of poisoning
by being gathered in greens. The distribution of poisonous plants
through the various botanical orders was discussed, and the fact was
revealed that a large percentage of the orders contain such species.

Prof. Ball spoke on “Collecting in Colorado.” His remarks on both faunal
and floral conditions are valuable to all, and especially to those who
collect in that western state. He emphasized the fact that in collecting
Hemiptera, general sweeping is not productive of the best results. Many
of the grasses which grow in that country are at least partially
recumbent, and for that reason the sweeping net misses most of the
desirable species. The species of insects which feed on these grasses
are best taken by searching about the roots, or by lifting up the stems
and scrutinizing them closely. Many new or rare species of Hemiptera
have been procured in numbers in this way.

He exhibited many photographs and drawings which revealed the
picturesqueness of the country, something of the flora, and the
difficulties railroad companies experience in getting a track across the
mountains, and left with many present a desire to see the remarkable
scenery for themselves.


                             MARCH MEETING.

The Biological Club met in Townshend Hall on the evening of March 4,
1901, the lantern being kindly furnished and operated by Professor Hunt.

The board of editors through its secretary, Mr. Griggs, recommended that
the offer of Professor Kellerman to take one-half the numbers of the
first volume of the OHIO NATURALIST for $125.00 be accepted; and that
Professors Schaffner, Osborn and Kellerman be appointed a committee to
consider the disposition of exchanges.

The report was unanimously accepted by the club.

Mr. Griggs reported that he and Mr. Tyler had procured a set of two
great horned owl’s eggs from an old hawk’s nest in a beech tree north of
the city, on March 4th.

The paper of the evening was given by Professor Osborn on “The Naples
Zoölogical Station.” The paper was illustrated by lantern and many views
of historic places in Europe were given. Naples and the surrounding
country with Vesuvius, Pompeii and other points of natural or historic
interest were shown in a series of fine views from photographs. The
station building with the beautiful grounds surrounding it appeared in
several of the views. The speaker dwelt at some length on the
opportunities given investigators, the methods of work, equipment in
laboratories and library, and the cordiality of the staff in charge, and
expressed the hope that many of the students in his hearing might at
some future time enjoy the privileges of a sojourn at the station.

Mr. Modesta Quiroga was elected to membership.

                                                JAS. S. HINE, Secretary.




                            NEWS AND NOTES.


In the present number of the NATURALIST is published some of the work
done last summer at the Lake Laboratory, located at Sandusky, O. For the
announcement for the summer of 1901, or any other information, address
Herbert Osborn, Director, Ohio State University, Columbus, O.

Special Papers No. 3, Ohio State Academy of Science, has been
distributed. This paper deals with “The Preglacial Drainage of Ohio,”
and the authors are W. G. Tight, Granville, J. A. Bownocker, Columbus,
J. H. Todd, Wooster, and Gerard Fowke, Chillicothe. The paper is a neat
pamphlet of seventy-five pages, with a number of maps and half-tones.

Referring to Burglehaus’ note on Syndesmon (OHIO NATURALIST, 1:72), I
may say that I have a number of specimens from Eastern Kansas, all of
which have sessile involucral leaves. Some of the specimens in the Ohio
State Herbarium have sessile leaves, while others have involucral leaves
with petioles one inch or less in length. That there can be no mistake
in the interpretation of what is supposed to constitute an involucral
leaf is shown from the following statement in Britton and Brown’s Flora,
2:50:—“Involucre of three compound sessile leaves; leaflets stalked.”
Mr. S. E. Horlacher, of Dayton, Ohio, writes that all the specimens in
his herbarium agree with the Flora in having sessile involucral leaves.
There may be several forms of Syndesmon distinct enough to designate as
varieties; there is at least a large amount of variation.

                                                        J. H. SCHAFFNER.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


                         Ohio State University

 Six distinct and independent Colleges, each with a Dean and Faculty of
    its own.

     THIRTY SEVEN DEPARTMENTS. THIRTY DISTINCT COURSES.

         =AGRICULTURE, ARTS, LAW, ENGINEERING, PHARMACY, VETERINARY
            MEDICINE.=

Superior facilities for education in Applied Science. Short or special
courses for mature students not candidates for degrees.

 One hundred and twenty one instructors. Over thirteen hundred students.
                      FINEST GYMNASIUM IN THE WEST.

 _For further information address the President_,

                       =DR. W. O. THOMPSON, STATE UNIVERSITY, COLUMBUS=.


           Ohio Forest Trees Identified by Leaves and Fruit.

           By W. A. KELLERMAN, PH. D., Ohio State University.

A neat pamphlet for every one who wishes to learn our native forest
trees. Keys simple. Description plain. Can learn the names of the trees
easily.

 Price reduced from 25 cents to                              =10 cents=.

           Also, =The Fourth State Catalogue of Ohio Plants=.

 Bound copies at cost of binding, namely                     =20 cents=.

  Gives list of scientific and common names; distribution by counties.

Teachers and others will also be interested in Prof. Kellerman’s
Phyto-theca or Herbarium Portfolio, _Practical Studies_ in Elementary
Botany, _Elementary Botany_ with Spring Flora, all published by Eldredge
& Bro., Philadelphia, to whom apply.

For information or copies of _Forest Trees_ and _Catalogue_ or names of
plant specimens of your region _address_

                                       =W. A. KELLERMAN, COLUMBUS, OHIO=


                       American Entomological Co.

                  1040 DE KALB AVENUE, BROOKLYN, N. Y.

      Lepidoptera Price List No. 2.—_Price 5 cents_      Refunded
                               to Buyers
                       ISSUED NOVEMBER 15th 1900.

       Dealers of all kinds of ...      _ENTOMOLOGICAL SUPPLIES_

 Manufacturers of the Original and Celebrated ... SCHMITT INSECT BOXES.

                  _Builders of INSECT CABINETS, ETC._


              The Twentieth Century Text Books of Biology.

 PLANT RELATIONS, 12mo, cloth                                      $1.10
 PLANT STRUCTURES, 12mo, cloth                                      1.20
 PLANT STUDIES, 12mo, cloth                                         1.20
 PLANTS, 12mo, cloth                                                1.80
 ANALYTICAL KEY TO PLANTS, 12mo, flexible cloth                      .75

   All by JOHN MERLE COULTER. A. M., Ph. D., Head of Dept. of Botany,
                         University of Chicago.

_They are already the preferred texts, and the reasons will be apparent
on examination._


                 ANIMAL LIFE: A First Book of Zoology.

  By DAVID S. JORDAN, M. S., M. D, Ph. D., LL. D., President of the
    Leland Stanford Junior University, and VERNON L. KELLOGG, M. S.,
    Professor in Leland Stanford Junior University. 12mo. Cloth, $1.20.
    _Now ready._

_Not a book for learning the classification, anatomy, and nomenclature
of animals, but to show how animals reached their present development,
the effects of environment, their place in Nature, their relations to
one another and to the human race. Designed for one-half year’s work in
high schools. Send for sample pages._


                ANIMAL FORMS: A Second Book of Zoology.

By DAVID S. JORDAN, M. S., M. D., Ph. D, LL. D., and HAROLD HEATH, Ph.
D., Professor in Leland Stanford Junior University. _Ready in February,
1901._

 D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, Publishers, _New York_, _Chicago_, _London_.


                        RECENT SCIENTIFIC WORKS

In =Astronomy=, Dr. Simon Newcomb’s new book, published October, 1900;
in =Physics=, the Johns Hopkins text of Professors Rowland and Ames;
also in Physics for second and third year high school work, the text of
Dr. Hoadley, of Swarthmore; in =Physiology=, the text by Drs. Macy and
Norris, based on the Nervous System; also the =High School Physiology=
indorsed by the W. C. T. U., written by Drs. Hewes, of Harvard
University; in =Geology=, the =Revised “Compend”= of Dr. Le Conte, and
the two standard works of Dana,—The =Manual for University Work=, and
the =New Text Book=, revision and rewriting of Dr. Rice, for fourth year
high school work; in =Chemistry=, the approved =Storer and Lindsay=,
recommended for secondary schools by the leading colleges; in =Zoology=,
the =Laboratory Manual= of Dr. Needham, of Cornell; and the series
“=Scientific Memoirs=” edited by Dr. Ames, of John Hopkins. Nine volumes
ready.

            The publishers cordially invite correspondence.


                   AMERICAN BOOK COMPANY, CINCINNATI

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                          TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES


 1. Silently corrected obvious typographical errors and variations in
      spelling.
 2. Retained archaic, non-standard, and uncertain spellings as printed.
 3. Enclosed italics font in _underscores_.
 4. Enclosed bold font in =equals=.


*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE OHIO NATURALIST, VOL. I, NO.
6, APRIL, 1901 ***



Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.


Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE
THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK


To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.


Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works


1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.


1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.


1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.



1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.


1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:


1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:


  
    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  


1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.


1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.


1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.


1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.


1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.


1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.


1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:


    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    


1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.


1.F.


1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.


1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.


1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.


1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.


1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.


1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.


Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™


Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.


Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.


Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation


The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.


The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact


Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation


Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.


The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.


While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.


International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.


Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.


Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works


Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.


Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.


This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

